Robert Smith's area, so forth and so on. But
anyway, the capital fund drive is in part a
response to the treatment that we're being
accorded. It's unfortunate that some years back,
back when I suppose it was sort of the golden era of
higher education growth in the state when
Connolly was governor, but we created a lot of
schools that are underutilized, but once
created, They cannot be dismantled. Would you
comment in that connection on the traditional
Texas A&M versus University of Texas conflict
over funding and competition generally? That's
an interesting thing. Historically,
apparently, there was this conflict, and each
college, each university sought to have its own
graduates in the legislature and all of that. But
there was ushered in, in the last seven or eight
years, much more of a cooperative effort. For
example, it's not a case of collusion, but it is a
fact that
UT and A&M consulted with each other over
admission standards. so as not to end up being
played one against the other.
They
collaborated along with Houston, I guess, in the
establishment of – I've forgotten exactly what
they're called. They're like outreach centers.
There's one in San Antonio. Yeah, I know which one.
That's certainly a collaborative effort. In your
college, you know that Fallon instituted the
practice of the executive committees of the two
colleges meeting either once a year or twice a
year, one time there and one time here. An exchange
of faculty has been utilized. What about
collaboration at the legislative level? I can't
really speak to that, but I think that there I sense
that, yeah. I think there's been a big change in
that relationship, but I don't really know, you
know. Yeah, well, you remember the big effort to,
what was it called, when things got really tight,
we got this sort of state-level NSF to provide
funding, and that was a collaborative effort.
Yeah, that's right. The creation of that. I think
that's been one of the most significant changes in
the last, whatever. Well, when we got over our
guilt complex, or our inferiority, not guilt, but
inferiority complex, about being second to them
or whatever, and everybody started talking about
the two flagship institutions. That's right.
That is a different perception. That's a good
point, rather than the University of Texas.
And you need to look at the... At the charts on our
outside funding for research, we rank seventh. We
rank ahead of UT. Of course, there's a little
cheating going on. And all that money going to ag
from the experiment station stuff and
engineering experiment, especially ag, kind of
inflates the figures a bit. But it's still
significant. That's right. And it is much more. We
continue, because image lags behind performance
by something like a decade or two, we continue, I
suppose, not to be as well recognized nationally
as we're going to be. But
I recall having a conversation with a New York
Times reporter when Shelley Glashow was on
campus. and I ended up being the spokesperson
because everybody else was out of town except the
Chancellor and me, and it was Anson at the time.
Shelly was on campus and the guy in helicopters
came in from Houston with the press, you know, and
we were interviewed outside the Koch building.
And the question was asked, you know, what's going
on here? Almost incredulous, this guy from the New
York Times I was saying, what's happening down
there? And I said, well, you know, in the beginning
there was the Ivy League, and they were the top
institutions in the country, and then gradually
great schools developed in the Midwest, like the
University of Chicago, Michigan, Ohio State,
Wisconsin, and then on over to the West Coast and a
California assistant at Stanford. And now it's
the South's turn. We can be as good as anybody. Our
time has arrived.
That's good. That's a good . And the guy said, hmm,
well, you know, you got a point there. That's good.
That was at a time, of course, when oil was still
poor. Yes, that does make a difference, boy. But,
you know, here we are now in the Sun Belt, and an area
that used to be known as the industrial heart of
America is called the Rust Belt. That's right.
Times have changed. They sure have. Well, what do
you, if you had to reflect on your days at Texas A&M,
is there any sort of... centrality or theme
or general evaluation you would give that time? I
think we became a very different institution.
This is not to say that the school of yesteryear was
not an outstanding one in its way, but I think that
General Rudder didn't think that dog was going to
hunt. much longer. Here we were sitting on one of
the biggest, certainly maybe the biggest state
campus in the country, and maybe the biggest
campus in the country, 5,200 acres and a handful of
students.
And he was astute enough to see that things had to
change. It was interesting, you know his
strategy, well I guess this has been written But he
adopted a strategy which economists call the
leading edge concept. He picked two departments
to make superstars out of. One was economics and
the other was chemistry. He brought in Greenhut
and
what's his name? Cotton? Not Cotton. The guy he
brought in brought Cotton in.
He was department head for a long time. He was
department head for a long time. He was department
head for a long time. He was department head for a
long time. He was department head for a long time.
He was department head for a long time. He was
department head for a long time. He was department
head for a long time. He was department head for a
long time. thought that the institution should be
as large as it became. And had I been the benevolent
king of this place, it would have stopped at
25,000. Yeah, that's a number I remember jingling
around. You get all the advantages of scale, and
beyond that you just get trouble.
I think we really did have growing pains because we
grew so fast. We were frequently short of
classroom space. We pumped a lot of money into
research. If you look at the numbers, a major part
of the construction on this campus can be
attributed to research. One of the things that
did, I think, contribute to the
continuance of this phenomenon of the Aggie
spirit, which in itself I can't really
understand. I can't really understand how it is
still so strong, but it is. I agree. I wonder how
long that's going to last. I wonder, too. It's
obviously not what it was when the Corps was so
dominant. But anyway, what I started to say was one
of the things that probably helped keep this such a
friendly campus was the fact that we never really
did build massive lecture halls. Classes are
still quite small, relatively speaking, for an
institution of this size. This size, you're
right. That's one point. And another point that
Glenn Dowling can give you very good data on is
compared to, I'd say, almost any, if not all, other
major institutions in the country, We have more
real faculty, and that's not the right word,
tenured or tenure-track faculty teaching at the
undergraduate level. We take a place, I was
reading about Southern Illinois, the provost was
quoted a few years ago as saying, God, none of our
courses at the undergraduate level are taught by
professors.
But that's not true here. No, not at all. So I think
that's been a very positive thing that has, I
think, enriched the students' experience here.
Do you think the mothers clubs and the former
students have been an enriching process? I think
yes. I think yes. I think this place has done a
remarkable job of indoctrination. of both
students and parents. We have one of the best, and
people tell us this that have gone to other
schools, that we have the best orientation
program of any. Incidentally, I still hear people
say how much they enjoyed your program.
I have a story to tell you about that later. But I
think it's really from the the silver taps, the
muster. Yeah, muster. Fish camp, I think, is doing
a good job now in picking up some of that
preservation of the spirit and its non-core, and
that's helped a lot. I think this place, and
another thing that is a phenomenon probably not
duplicated in many institutions is this is all of
the student organizations under the MSC. MSC,
yeah. That gives them a leadership and a...
Political forum, great issues, SCONA, all that
stuff. Somehow or other, you know, I've always
felt, and I'm not trying to put words in your mouth,
that students who come out of A&M, in a way, have
come out of the real world more so than students who
come out of a lot of institutions, and that has been
one of the great strengths of the... of the
graduate in the job market. I think so. A lot of them
have learned a lot about leadership. That's
right. And, of course, there's this Aggie network
out there that's not just good old boys now, but
good old girls. Serious stuff. Serious stuff.
Aggies have a reputation for being hardworking
youngsters. You know, Hyde was involved. back in
the earlier years with the Center for
Management Training, Executive Development.
Yes, yeah, sure. And businessmen would come to
these programs,
men, mostly men, sometimes a few women, but
businesspersons who had been on other campuses.
They couldn't believe what they were seeing. They
couldn't believe the friendliness of the
students. They couldn't believe how clean the
campus was.
It was an eye-opener for a lot of them. I guess that
program's still going well, isn't it? I know it was
a few years ago. And who's the new head of, he was in
that, gosh. Duke Hobbs heads it now. Who was in that
with you when you were running that program? Billy
Joe Adams. And someone else, let's see, who's now a
head of a department in business, just accepted
the headship about a year ago, and who I thought was
ready to hang it all up. Oh, Don Elrigal was one that
came back after being a department head before.
I'm surprised he agreed to do it again. Do it again,
I know. I think what has happened with Don is he's
made a reputation for himself. He's got some
highly successful textbooks. I see him out at the
baseball games all the time. You can't keep your
nose to the grindstone and spend hours at the . Don
never really was too much involved in the
executive development program, but he was once a
chancellor. Yeah, I know. Yeah. He's a very
talented guy. Well, let's see. Let's talk very
quickly, sort of a summary statement. Where do we
go from here, do you think? What do you see
happening in the major thrust or directions of the
university? I hope we can continue to preserve
this Aggie spirit. I think it gets increasingly
difficult with the size that we've achieved.
I see the institution.
continuing to get better. I don't see really
dramatic changes of the magnitude that you and I
have experienced, though. Given the size,
there's an awful lot of inertia
connected with size.
Until the financing situation changes, we don't
have a lot of room to be innovative. I would like to
see us have someday a full-blown fine arts
program. But this is going to be something that
doesn't happen overnight. Dogs knocking on the
door. Yeah, mine does too. You have to get up and go.
Yeah, you got left out of the scene, huh? Okay, now,
Max, we're writing.
Sit down. Sit, sit, sit, sit, sit. You're supposed
to say when I say sit. And you said a moment ago that
probably the image of the A&M will be better
because images follow by a decade. Yeah, or at
least, yeah. Well, is there anything else you
would like to add to this? No. And I may call you
along the way. Yeah, feel free to do so. I really
don't quite get what I'm doing. I'm just going to do
something. Well, I'll close it off.